LOUVRE MUSEUM TO HIKE ENTRANCE FEE BY 45% FOR NON-EUROPEAN VISITORS

Source: CNN

A visit to the Louvre museum in Paris is set to become significantly
more expensive for travelers from outside Europe, with officials
announcing plans to hike the price of tickets by 45%.

From January 14, 2026, an individual ticket for visitors from outside
the European Economic Area (EEA) — a grouping of nations that
comprises the European Union member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein
and Norway — will cost 32 euros ($37), a spokesperson for the Louvre
told CNN on Friday.

Those visiting as part of a group with a guide will have to pay 28
euros ($32.40) per person.

The price increases are expected to bring in an extra 15-20 million
euros (around $17-23 million) a year, which will be invested in
“modernising and upgrading the Louvre to address structural issues
facing the museum,” the spokesperson said.

Built from the late 12th century onwards, the Louvre Palace was the
official residence of the kings of France for centuries. Louis XIV’s
decision to move his court to Versailles, on the outskirts of the
French capital, allowed for the establishment of the Louvre Museum in
1793.

Since then, it has become the most visited museum in the world and a
cultural highlight of any stay in Paris.

Last year, the Louvre welcomed 8.7 million visitors, with tourists
from the United States making up 13% of all guests, second only to the
French.

But the large crowds coming through the museum’s doors each day have
put a strain on the centuries-old building — and its staff.

Other issues include inadequate security measures, which were exposed
in spectacular fashion on October 19 by an audacious daytime robbery
in which four men stole priceless historic jewelry.

These shortcomings were described in a report released by a French
court on November 6, which slammed the Louvre’s leadership for its
focus on headline-grabbing purchases and renovation projects over
maintaining the security of one of the world’s largest museums.

Pierre Moscovici, president of the Court of Accounts, which authored
the report, told journalists that the robbery was a “deafening alarm
signal” for the museum.

However, the plan to introduce higher ticket prices for non-EEA
visitors pre-dates the heist, as it was announced by French culture
minister Rachida Dati at the beginning of this year. 

Similar measures will also apply at other attractions, such as the
Palace of Versailles, the Sainte Chapelle in Paris and the Château de
Chambord in the Loire Valley, according to the spokesperson.
